PMM-7999 Add QuickStart section (#1122)
percona/pmm-doc: docs/quickstart.md

# Quickstart Guide

This guide covers how you can quickly get started using PMM. This is applicable to Docker compatible *nix based systems.

## Prerequisites

The following are the prerequisites for using PMM:

Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) 1.12.6 or higher.

## Install PMM

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Important"
    You can use the [easy installation](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/easy-install.html) script that will verify and install any missing software and dependencies. To use it, run the command with sudo privileges or as root.
    You can download the script from [github](https://github.com/percona/pmm/blob/main/get-pmm.sh).

To install PMM server, do the following

1. Set up Docker on [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install) or [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu).

2. Install PMM server using `cURL` or `wget` as follows:

> === "cURL"
> 
>     ```sh
>     curl -fsSL https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash
>     ```
> 
> === "wget"
> 
>     ```sh
>     wget -qO - https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash    
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    === "cURL"

        ```sh
        curl -fsSL https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash
        ```

    === "wget"

        ```sh
        wget -qO - https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash    
        ```
```

# Quickstart Guide

> This guide covers how you can quickly get started using PMM. This is applicable to Docker compatible Linux based systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide helps you quickly get started with PMM using Docker-compatible Linux-based systems.
```

## Prerequisites

[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) 1.12.6 or higher.

## System requirements

**Disk**

> Approximately 1 GB of storage per monitored database node with data retention set to one week. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Approximately 1 GB of storage per monitored database node, with data retention set to one week. 
```

**Memory**

A minimum of 2 GB per monitored database node. The increase in memory usage is not proportional to the number of nodes. For example, data from 20 nodes should be easily handled with 16 GB.

**Ports**

> This is a list of [ports](setting-up/server/network.md) used by the various components of PMM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out the [list of ports used by PMM components](setting-up/server/network.md).
```

For PMM to work correctly, your system’s firewall should allow TCP traffic on these ports (UDP is not needed).

## Install PMM

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Important"

>     - You can use the [easy installation](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/easy-install.html) script that will verify and install any missing software and dependencies. To use it, run the command with sudo privileges or as root.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     - You can download the script from [github](https://github.com/percona/pmm/blob/main/get-pmm.sh).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Here are the steps for installing the PMM server:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install PMM Server:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the [PMM easy installation script](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/easy-install.html) to verify and install any missing software and dependencies. The install script only runs on Linux-compatible systems. To use it, run the command with sudo privileges or as root.
```

> 1. Set up Docker on [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install) or [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [Set up Docker on Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install) or [on Linux](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu).
```

> 2. Install the PMM server using `cURL` or `wget` as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Install the PMM Server using `cURL` or `wget`:
```

    === "cURL"

        ```sh
        curl -fsSL https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash
        ```

    === "wget"

        ```sh
        wget -qO - https://www.percona.com/get/pmm | /bin/bash    
        ```

> 3. Log in to PMM with the default login credentials that are provided after the installation is completed.

Author: Done

> 3. Log in to PMM with the default login credentials provided after the installation is completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Log into PMM with the default credentials provided after completing the installation.
```

> For detailed instructions on installing the PMM server with the other methods, see [Setting up PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/index.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instructions on installing the PMM Server with other methods, see [Setting up PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/index.html).
```

> ## Add a database instance

Author: @artemgavrilov I could not understand your comment properly. Could you please rephrase?

> ## Add a database instance

Reviewer 3: I think explanation should be more detailed.

=== "MySQL 5.7 or 8.0"

>     Before you add a MySQL database for monitoring you should have a [database account for PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mysql.html#create-a-database-account-for-pmm).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **Prerequisites**
   Before adding a MySQL database for monitoring,  [create a database account for PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mysql.html#create-a-database-account-for-pmm).
```

Reviewer 4: +1

>     Here are the steps to add a MySQL database for monitoring:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To add a MySQL database for monitoring:
```

>     1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration** → **PMM Inventory** → **Add Instance**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration > PMM Inventory > Add Instance** and select **MySQL**.
```

>     2. Select **MySQL**. The **Add Service** page opens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     3. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page without changing any values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. On the **Add Service** page, enter your database credentials without changing any values.
```

Reviewer 5: why we mention "without changing any values". I think user should know that he/she can change any values.

>     4. Optional: Enter the information on the **Labels** and **Additional Options** section. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    4. (Optional) Enter the information on the **Labels** and **Additional Options** section. 
```

    5. Click **Add Service** at the bottom.

    For detailed information, see [Adding a MySQL database for monitoring](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mysql.html).

=== "MongoDB"

>     Before you add a MongoDB database for monitoring you should have a [database account for PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mongodb.html#create-pmm-account-and-set-permissions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Prerequisite:
    Before you add a MongoDB database for monitoring,  [create a database account for PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mongodb.html#create-pmm-account-and-set-permissions).
```

>     Here are the steps to add a MongoDB database for monitoring:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To add a MongoDB database for monitoring:
```

>     1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration** → **PMM Inventory** → **Add Instance**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration >PMM Inventory > Add Instance** and select **MongoDB**.
```

>     2. Select **MongoDB**. The *Add Service* page opens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     3. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page without changing any values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. On the  **Add Service** page, enter your database credentials without changing any values.
```

>     4. Optional: Enter the information in the **Labels** and **Additional Options** section. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    4. (Optional) Enter the information in the **Labels** and **Additional Options** section. 
```

    5. Click **Add Service** at the bottom.

    For detailed information on adding a MongoDB database, see [Adding a MySQL database for monitoring](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mongodb.html).

=== "PostgreSQL"

>     Before you add a PostgreSQL database for monitoring you should have a [database account for PMM]((https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/postgresql.html#create-a-database-account-for-pmm).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    **Prerequisite**: Before adding a  PostgreSQL database for monitoring, [create a database account for PMM]((https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/postgresql.html#create-a-database-account-for-pmm).
```

>     Here are the steps to add a PostgreSQL database for monitoring:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To add a PostgreSQL database for monitoring:
```

>     1. From the PMM UI, go to *Configuration* → *PMM Inventory* → *Add Instance*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration > PMM Inventory > Add Instance** and choose **PostgreSQL**.
```

>     2. Select **PostgreSQL**. The **Add Service** page opens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     3. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page without changing any values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2.  On the **Add Service** page, enter your database credentials without changing any values.
```

>     4. Optional: Enter the information on the *Labels* or *Additional Options* section. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. (Optional): Enter the information on the **Labels** or **Additional Options** section. 
```

    5. Click **Add Service** at the bottom.

    For detailed information, see [Adding a PostgreSQL database](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/postgresql.html).

=== "Amazon RDS"

    You can use PMM for monitoring [Amazon RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/). By using the PMM web interface, you connect to the Amazon RDS DB instance. 

    You only need to provide the [IAM user access key](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/aws.html#creating-an-access-key-for-an-iam-user) or assign an [IAM role](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/aws.html#creating-an-iam-role) and PMM discovers the Amazon RDS DB instances available for monitoring.

>     Before you add Amazon instance for moniitoring you should have the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Prerequisites: Before you add an Amazon instance for monitoring, make sure to: ```

>     - AWS RDS Access Key and RDS Secret Access Key. This key should have permission to monitor RDS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Get your AWS RDS Access Key and RDS Secret Access Key. This key should have permission to monitor RDS.
```

    - Recommended: Enable *Enhanced Monitoring* option in the settings of your Amazon RDS DB instance.

>     - Database username and password with access to login to the RDS instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Set up your database username and password with access to login to the RDS instance.
```

>     - Access to the RDS instance via a TCP port.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Access the RDS instance via a TCP port.
```

>     Here are the steps to add an Amazon RDS database instance for monitoring:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To add an Amazon RDS database instance for monitoring:
```

>     1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration** → **PMM Inventory** → **Add Instance**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration > PMM Inventory > Add Instance**.
```

    2. Select **Amazon RDS – Add a remote instance**.

>     3. Enter the **access key ID** and the **secret access key** of your IAM user or leave these fields empty if an IAM role was created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. Enter the **access key ID** and the **secret access key** of your IAM user, or leave these fields empty if an IAM role was created.
```

    4. Click **Discover** for PMM to retrieve the available Amazon RDS instances.

    5. For the instance that you would like to monitor, select **Start monitoring**.

    6. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page without changing any values.

>     7. Optional: Enter the information on the **Labels** or **Additional Options** section. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    7. (Optional) Enter the information on the **Labels** or **Additional Options** section. 
```

# Quickstart Guide

This guide helps you quickly get started with PMM using Docker-compatible Linux-based systems.

## Prerequisites

> [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) 1.12.6 or higher.

Author: Done.

## System requirements

**Disk**

- Approximately 1 GB of storage per monitored database node 
- Data retention set to one week 

**Memory**

Each database node should have at least 2 GB of memory for effective monitoring. The increase in memory usage is not proportional to the number of nodes. For example, data from 20 nodes should be easily handled with 16 GB.

**Ports**

Check out the [list of ports used by PMM components](setting-up/server/network.md).

> For PMM to work correctly, your system’s firewall should allow TCP traffic on these ports (UDP is not needed).

Author: Done

## Install PMM

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Important"
    - You can use the [easy installation](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/easy-install.html) script that will verify and install any missing software and dependencies. To use it, run the command with sudo privileges or as root.
    - You can download the script from [github](https://github.com/percona/pmm/blob/main/get-pmm.sh).

> To install the PMM server, follows the steps below:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To install the PMM server, follow the steps below:
```

        ```

3. Log in to PMM with the default login credentials that are provided after the installation is completed.

For detailed instructions on installing the PMM server with the other methods, see [Setting up PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/index.html).

## Add a database instance

=== "MySQL 5.7 or 8.0"

    Before you add a MySQL database for monitoring you should have a [database account for PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mysql.html#create-a-database-account-for-pmm).

    To add a MySQL database instance for monitoring:

    1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration** → **PMM Inventory** → **Add Instance**.

    2. Select **MySQL**. The **Add Service** page opens.

    3. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page without changing any values.

    4. (Optional) Enter the information on the **Labels** and **Additional Options** section. 

    5. Click **Add Service** at the bottom.

    For detailed information, see [Adding a MySQL database for monitoring](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mysql.html).

=== "MongoDB"

>     Before you add a MongoDB database for monitoring, you should have a [database account for PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mongodb.html#create-pmm-account-and-set-permissions).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 **Prerequisites**
 Before adding a MongoDB database for monitoring,  [create a database account for PMM](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/mongodb.html#create-pmm-account-and-set-permissions).
```

    
    To add a PostgreSQL database instance for monitoring:

    1. From the PMM UI, go to *Configuration* → *PMM Inventory* → *Add Instance*.

    2. Select **PostgreSQL**. The **Add Service** page opens.

    3. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page without changing any values.

    4. (Optional) Enter the information on the *Labels* or *Additional Options* section. 

    5. Click **Add Service** at the bottom.

    For detailed information, see [Adding a PostgreSQL database](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/postgresql.html).

=== "Amazon RDS"

    You can use PMM for monitoring [Amazon RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/). By using the PMM web interface, you connect to the Amazon RDS DB instance. 

    You only need to provide the [IAM user access key](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/aws.html#creating-an-access-key-for-an-iam-user) or assign an [IAM role](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/aws.html#creating-an-iam-role) and PMM discovers the Amazon RDS DB instances available for monitoring.

>     Before you add Amazon instance for monitoring you should have the following:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Before you add Amazon instance for monitoring, do the following:
```

    - AWS RDS Access Key and RDS Secret Access Key. This key should have permission to monitor RDS.
    - Recommended: Enable **Enhanced Monitoring** option in the settings of your Amazon RDS DB instance.
    - Database username and password with access to login to the RDS instance.
    - Access to the RDS instance via a TCP port.

    To add an Amazon RDS database instance for monitoring:

    1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration > PMM Inventory > Add Instance**.

    2. Select **Amazon RDS – Add a remote instance**.

    3. Enter the **access key ID** and the **secret access key** of your IAM user, or leave these fields empty if an IAM role was created.

    4. Click **Discover** for PMM to retrieve the available Amazon RDS instances.

    5. For the instance that you would like to monitor, select **Start monitoring**.

>     6. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page without changing any values.

Reviewer 5: same here, why user can't change any other values?

Author: Done

    7. (Optional) Enter the information on the **Labels** or **Additional Options** section. 

    8. Click **Add Service** at the bottom.

    For detailed information, see [Adding an Amazon RDS instance for monitoring](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/aws.html).

## Next steps

Explore the following topics to gain a deeper understanding of PMM:

- [Configure](how-to/configure.md) - Learn how to configure PMM via the interface.
- [Manage users](how-to/manage-users.md) - Learn how to manage users in PMM.

> - [Roles and permissions](get-started/roles-and-permissions/index.md) - Learn more about roles and permissions in PMM.

Reviewer 6: broken link

> - [Backup and restore](get-started/backup/index.md) — Learn how to backup and to restore data in PMM.

Reviewer 6: broken link

# Quickstart Guide

This guide helps you quickly get started with PMM using Docker.

## Prerequisites

[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

## System requirements

**Disk**

- Approximately 1 GB of storage per monitored database node 
- Approximately 1 GB of storage per monitored database node for data retention set to one week 

**Memory**

Each database node should have at least 2 GB of memory for effective monitoring. The increase in memory usage is not proportional to the number of nodes. For example, data from 20 nodes should be easily handled with 16 GB.

**Ports**

- By default, port 443 should be opened on the PMM Server.

> - The database port should be open for the PMM Server.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- The database port should be open for the PMM Agent.
```

    - Access to the RDS instance via a TCP port.

    To add an Amazon RDS database instance for monitoring:

    1. From the PMM UI, go to **Configuration > PMM Inventory > Add Instance**.

    2. Select **Amazon RDS – Add a remote instance**.

    3. Enter the **access key ID** and the **secret access key** of your IAM user, or leave these fields empty if an IAM role was created.

    4. Click **Discover** for PMM to retrieve the available Amazon RDS instances.

    5. For the instance that you would like to monitor, select **Start monitoring**.

    6. Enter your database credentials on the resulting page.

    7. (Optional) Enter the information on the **Labels** or **Additional Options** section. 

    8. Click **Add Service** at the bottom.

    For detailed information, see [Adding an Amazon RDS instance for monitoring](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/client/aws.html).

## Next steps

Explore the following topics to gain a deeper understanding of PMM:

- [Configure](how-to/configure.md) - Learn how to configure PMM via the interface.
- [Manage users](how-to/manage-users.md) - Learn how to manage users in PMM.

> - [Roles and permissions](get-started/roles-and-permissions/index.md) - Learn more about roles and permissions in PMM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Roles and permissions](use/roles-and-permissions/index.md) - Learn more about roles and permissions in PMM.
```

> - [Backup and restore](get-started/backup/index.md) — Learn how to backup and to restore data in PMM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Backup and restore](use/backup/index.md) — Learn how to backup and to restore data in PMM.
```
